README.md, before:

[![Review Assignment Due Date](https://classroom.github.com/assets/deadline-readme-button-24ddc0f5d75046c5622901739e7c5dd533143b0c8e959d652212380cedb1ea36.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/a/9bMXU1P_)


Dataset website: https://www.kaggle.com/code/tayyarhussain/netflix-popular-movies-data-analysis

# Final Project Proposal

Please complete your proposal following the outline below.

## Project title

Analyzing TV Shows and Movies on Netflix Based on Popularity

Give your project a concise, interesting title that summarizes the entirety of your project. (Your title can change on subsequent deliverables.)

### Authors
- Jolie Sim (jsim19@uw.edu)
- Yuvika Verma (yverma@uw.edu)

Names of your team members and contact information (email addresses).
### Date

Spring 2024
## Abstract

No more than three sentences that summarize your project. Focus on the very most important aspects. For example: (1) "Our main question is .... This question is important because .... To address the question, we will ...." (2) "We are concerned with ..., because .... To address this concern, we plan to ...." (3) "Consider that .... This is important because .... Accordingly, we plan to ...."

## Keywords

movies and tv shows, ratings, Netflix, popularity

3-5 keywords that summarize your project.
(e.g., "Keywords: human physiology; bicycle exercise; Gen Z; times-series data")

## Proposal

1. Introduction  

During the Covid-19 pandemic, every aspect of life was different: more people stayed at home, companies shut down, and others thrived. While absolute necessities such as the food and health industries represent some of the most notable high-demand work at the time, overall, many industries presented noticeable differences in production between the years of 2019-2021 regardless of popularity. With this in mind, our group is interested in making observations of how the Covid era may have impacted the popularity of Netflix shows and movies, as lockdown forced many to stay to spend extended time inside. Does the release year of a show or movie affect the popularity (IMDb rating) of the media? Specifically, do shows/movies released from 2019-2021 have higher ratings compared to media released at other times? Do they typically have more votes by the public in general? Were different ratings of movies (PG, MA, R, etc.) more popular during Covid and did a certain group of them receive higher ratings (scores)? What does this say about who was most involved with Netflix consumption and what shows/movies were most popular during the pandemic? Considering Netflix is such a popular streaming platform that not only displays new movies but creates their own Netflix-branded content, we are motivated to delve into such a complex platform. Through this class we have learned the significance of data analysis, and have come to understand that everything is data that can be analyzed. Furthermore, as frequent Netflix users ourselves, we are inspired by what correlations we can observe from data that we use every day and do not typically think about as "data". With normality resuming around the world and streaming platforms becoming more mainstream in general, we find that it is important to understand patterns in popularity of media to accurately form predictions as to what types of content will be best perceived in the future.

> Briefly introduce your project.  Include 3-5 research questions. What motivates the questions? Why are they important? (at least 200 words)

2. Related Work  

> Describe your topic and related work in this space. You must include 3 citations to related work (URLs to similar work, high quality articles from the popular press, research papers, etc. ) Please use a standard citation style of your choice. (at least 200 words)

3. The Dataset

> Where did you find the data? Please include a link to the data source  
> Who collected the data?  
> How was the data collected or generated?  
> Why was the data collected?  
>How many observations (rows) are in your data?  
> How many features (columns) are in the data?  
> What, if any, ethical questions or questions of power do you need to consider when working with this data?  
> What are possible limitations or problems with this data?   (at least 200 words)

4. Implications

> Assuming you answer your research questions, briefly describe the expected or possible implications for technologists, designers, and policymakers. (at least 150 words)

5. Limitations & Challenges
>What challenges or limitations might you need to address with your project idea more broadly? Briefly discuss. (at least 150 words)

Acknowledgements
> Is there anyone you would like to thank? A librarian who helped you with your research? A Teaching Assistant? A friend who helped you find your data? Say thank you in this section.

Commit message:

Completed question 2, the Related Work section of the proposal. Research work related to Netflix consumption to get general idea of what others have reported on this topic.

README.md, after:

[![Review Assignment Due Date](https://classroom.github.com/assets/deadline-readme-button-24ddc0f5d75046c5622901739e7c5dd533143b0c8e959d652212380cedb1ea36.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/a/9bMXU1P_)


Dataset website: https://www.kaggle.com/code/tayyarhussain/netflix-popular-movies-data-analysis

# Final Project Proposal

Please complete your proposal following the outline below.

## Project title

Analyzing TV Shows and Movies on Netflix Based on Popularity

Give your project a concise, interesting title that summarizes the entirety of your project. (Your title can change on subsequent deliverables.)

### Authors
- Jolie Sim (jsim19@uw.edu)
- Yuvika Verma (yverma@uw.edu)

Names of your team members and contact information (email addresses).
### Date

Spring 2024
## Abstract

No more than three sentences that summarize your project. Focus on the very most important aspects. For example: (1) "Our main question is .... This question is important because .... To address the question, we will ...." (2) "We are concerned with ..., because .... To address this concern, we plan to ...." (3) "Consider that .... This is important because .... Accordingly, we plan to ...."

## Keywords

movies and tv shows, ratings, Netflix, popularity

3-5 keywords that summarize your project.
(e.g., "Keywords: human physiology; bicycle exercise; Gen Z; times-series data")

## Proposal

1. Introduction  

During the Covid-19 pandemic, every aspect of life was different: more people stayed at home, companies shut down, and others thrived. While absolute necessities such as the food and health industries represent some of the most notable high-demand work at the time, overall, many industries presented noticeable differences in production between the years of 2019-2021 regardless of popularity. With this in mind, our group is interested in making observations of how the Covid era may have impacted the popularity of Netflix shows and movies, as lockdown forced many to stay to spend extended time inside. Does the release year of a show or movie affect the popularity (IMDb rating) of the media? Specifically, do shows/movies released from 2019-2021 have higher ratings compared to media released at other times? Do they typically have more votes by the public in general? Were different ratings of movies (PG, MA, R, etc.) more popular during Covid and did a certain group of them receive higher ratings (scores)? What does this say about who was most involved with Netflix consumption and what shows/movies were most popular during the pandemic? Considering Netflix is such a popular streaming platform that not only displays new movies but creates their own Netflix-branded content, we are motivated to delve into such a complex platform. Through this class we have learned the significance of data analysis, and have come to understand that everything is data that can be analyzed. Furthermore, as frequent Netflix users ourselves, we are inspired by what correlations we can observe from data that we use every day and do not typically think about as "data". With normality resuming around the world and streaming platforms becoming more mainstream in general, we find that it is important to understand patterns in popularity of media to accurately form predictions as to what types of content will be best perceived in the future.

> Briefly introduce your project.  Include 3-5 research questions. What motivates the questions? Why are they important? (at least 200 words)

2. Related Work  

The streaming platform of Netflix is a staple in many people's lives. With it's diverse selection of TV shows and movies, viewers are able to find content within any genre they are in the mood for. When gathering data, patterns such as type of show/movie and genre can then reflect current trends in society, whether that is what audiences are currently resonating with, or possibly greater representations of what is going on in the world. With Covid, it is harder to decipher what exact genres were popular during lockdown as essentially everyone was at home watching. Hence, the general audience grew. Many articles delve into the driving reasons for this, whether it be because we are missing out on daily activities, or because there are simply less things to do. In a [2020 Forbes article](https://www.forbes.com/sites/danafeldman/2020/12/10/netflix-allowed-us-to-escape-2020-at-home-in-lockdown-heres-what-the-streamer-says-we-watched/?sh=13ef8a3b1d2d) for instance, the author Dana Feldman expands on this topic as she dissects some of the most notable things that Covid took away from our daily lives. For example, Covid lessened dating and our sense of routine. Feldman then uses theses issues to explain some of the most popular shows that year, such as the rise in popularity of dating shows and the increase in family show viewers. On the other hand, different research focuses more on the cognitive and behavioral tendencies we have as humans that draw us to watching more media. For example, a [study published by the National Library of Medicine](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8437809/) analyzes the concept of increased TV viewership due to desire for communication. The authors of this study, a group of researchers from the University of Central Florida, Ohio State, and Cal Poly SLO, explain that humans are social creatures and want to have something to talk about and to connect with others on, which is one reason why we watched more TV during Covid. Finally, a third perspective offered in this work is looking at how Netflix subscription numbers are affected post-pandemic. In a [Guardian article](https://www.theguardian.com/media/2021/apr/20/netflix-records-dramatic-slowdown-in-subscribers-as-pandemic-boom-wears-off), the author notes how Netflix subscriptions have dropped dramatically by the middle of 2021. In relation to our intentions for this project, this explains a lot about increased trends in media consumption during the pandemic itself, just as we predicted. This offers an interesting alternative perspective that helps articulate how drastically the pandemic affected Netflix usage.

> Describe your topic and related work in this space. You must include 3 citations to related work (URLs to similar work, high quality articles from the popular press, research papers, etc. ) Please use a standard citation style of your choice. (at least 200 words)

3. The Dataset

> Where did you find the data? Please include a link to the data source  
> Who collected the data?  
> How was the data collected or generated?  
> Why was the data collected?  
>How many observations (rows) are in your data?  
> How many features (columns) are in the data?  
> What, if any, ethical questions or questions of power do you need to consider when working with this data?  
> What are possible limitations or problems with this data?   (at least 200 words)

4. Implications

> Assuming you answer your research questions, briefly describe the expected or possible implications for technologists, designers, and policymakers. (at least 150 words)

5. Limitations & Challenges
>What challenges or limitations might you need to address with your project idea more broadly? Briefly discuss. (at least 150 words)

Acknowledgements
> Is there anyone you would like to thank? A librarian who helped you with your research? A Teaching Assistant? A friend who helped you find your data? Say thank you in this section.
